# CS145-Assignment1

CS 145
Assignment 1 – Word Search Generator

## Key topics

Printing, data types, methods, operators, expressions, variables, for loop,
parameters, returns, String objects, Scanner object, if/else statements, while loop, arrays

# Learning Outcomes
- Begin to become familiar with setup, design, execution and testing of basic Java
programs
- Design and develop a multi-method program in good style
- Demonstrate the ability to decompose a problem and reduce redundancy using
methods
- Apply tools and techniques introduced in class to form a working program
- Produce a working complex program that includes user input
By the end of this assignment, you should be familiar with the material covered in class so far
and be able to demonstrate the ability to use it properly in practice.

# Task
Your task is to create a basic word search generator. A word search is a puzzle with many letters
and inside are several words that a person is supposed to find. For information about word
search puzzles, you can read the Wikipedia article at
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word_search.
You will be creating a program that takes in a certain number of words from the user and
generates a word search using those words. Initially, your program should display an intro to
the user describing what the program does. There should then be options for the user to select
by typing in a letter. The user should be able to perform several actions during one run of your
program. A sample run of your program might look like this:
In the instance above, the user typed a g and would then proceed to generating a new word
search. After generating a new words search, the menu should come up again and prompt the
user for another action. This should occur after every action until the user inputs “q” to quit the
program.
When the user decides to generate a new word search, the program should prompt them for
how many words they would like to enter and proceed to ask the user for each of these words.
The program would then use these words to generate the word search. Note that you many
need to adjust the size of your word search to accommodate more words or larger words. It is
ok to limit the number of tries placing a word to 100. If you try to place a word within the word
search more than 100 times, you may omit that word from the word search.
Printing out the word search simply prints out the word search that has been generated by the
user. If the user has not generated a word search and attempts to print, you should prompt
them to generate a word search and display the menu again and wait for the user to choose an
action.
Selecting “s” to show the solution should display the word search, but with all the random
letters as “X”. This means that only the words input by the user would be visible and it would be
easy to see the solution to the word search.
## Implementation Details
Your program must include at least the following method (you are welcome to and encouraged
to have more)
### printIntro
This method prints out the intro to the program. It gives the user an idea of what the program
does and how to use it.
### generate
This method does the bulk of the work. It will prompt the user for how many words and what
the words are and generate a word search based on those words.
### print
This method prints the current word search that has been generated.
### showSolution
This method prints the solution to the word search that has been generated.

## Helpful Information
Since you will be able to show the solution and print the word search, it may be helpful to store
two copies of your word search, one that is the generated word search with the random letters
included and one that has “X” for all of the random letters instead so the solution is easy to see.
You should be storing your word search in a two dimensional array (an array of arrays).
You may use any material covered in class up through chapter 8. You may make use of libraries
that are introduced in those chapters as well. However, you may not use other external
libraries beyond what are covered in the book through chapter 8.
I strongly encourage you to tackle this assignment in parts and practice iterative design. Work
on a few things and then test them to make sure they work. Then, add some more and test
those. Make sure that you come up with a plan before you start coding. Writing pseudocode
can also be very helpful. I encourage you to speak with your classmates about your
development plan for this assignment. I am also available to discuss how you might approach
this assignment. Feel free to reach out to me with any questions or concerns.
Style:
It is important that you get used to writing code in good style. What is demonstrated in
examples in class is considered good style. Additionally, you should look at the style guide
located on Canvas. Code written not in good style will lose points.

## Extra Credit Opportunities (Optional)

You can choose to do as many or as few of these as you would like. Each one completed
successfully and in good style will earn some extra credit points towards this assignment.
1. Instead of having the user input all of their words, you may make it so that your
program offers the option to read the list of words from a text (.txt) files instead. You
must allow the user to choose if they want to read from the file or input the words
manually. Completing this task successfully and in good style will result in extra credit.
2. You may also implement the ability to save a word search and its solution to a file (using
PrintStream objects). You can add the option to the menu to allow the user to save their
word search and its solution. Completing this task successfully and in good style will
result in extra credit.
3. If you think of additional, cool functionality that you would like to add to your word
search generator, discuss it with me and I may be open to allowing it to be an extra
credit opportunity as well. You must discuss the functionality with me before your
assignment is turned in and I may or may not deem it worthy of extra credit. I will let
you know when we discuss the functionality if it will be worth some or not.

## Grading
* Style 10
* printIntro 5
* generate 35
* print 15
* showSolution 15
* Program functionality 20
* Total: 100